The goal is to develop, following an incremental/iterative development process, a software system to support the exchange—without any monetary transactions—of work performances that fall within a predefined (non-empty) set of activity categories. The application can be adopted by various organizations that oversee the exchange of activity hours pertaining to different sets of categories and/or operate in different locations.

The application envisions two types of users: the configurator and the participant. The configurator is a representative of the organization who, through the software application, oversees the exchange of work performances without the use of money. They are responsible for defining the exchangeable activity categories and can access information related to current potential exchanges or those that have already taken place. The participant is a person who uses the application with the intention of carrying out exchanges, if possible. When the system identifies a potential exchange opportunity, it notifies the configurator, who then communicates it (outside the system) to each involved participant.

The application aims to support the exchange of work hours for different activities falling under specific categories, called leaf categories, defined by the configurator. The configurator also defines non-leaf categories, each of which has a characteristic field that can take a value from a finite (non-empty) domain of discrete values. The name of the field depends on the category it belongs to, as does the domain of that field. Each value in the field’s domain may be associated with a description. A category is divided into one or more (sub)categories, one for each value that its characteristic field can assume. Each (sub)category can, in turn, be recursively subdivided, forming a tree-like hierarchy. The leaf categories of the tree do not have any fields.

Read "Traccia" for more.
